There is already a very good [Apophysis Wiki](http://apophysis.wikispaces.com/). This page is specifically about the peculiarities of creating designs in Apophysis for the purpose of uploading them as future Electric Sheep.

  * There are several [tutorials](http://apophysis.wikispaces.com/Tutorials) out there.
  * If you are using the Apophysis beta, be sure you have Save in old file format checked under Options->Options->General tab.
  * You may use [Exper's export sheep script](http://exper.3drecursions.com/exper-apophysis-scripts/) to be sure your sheep is formatted properly for the server. Be sure to choose the one that matches the server you're using: 2.6 or 2.7beta.
  * You cannot use all of the features in Apophysis to build sheep. The rules are generally outlined in the [Posting help file](http://electricsheep.org/apophysis/posting.html), but some of the most important ones are:
    * Do not use zoom to zoom. Use Master Scale - under View->Adjust->Rendering tab.
    * The sheep will be rendered at 800x592 on the 2.7 server. If you are viewing the sheep at a very different size, the server's rendering might be surprising to you.
    * Sheep will render with a maximum of 12 triangles on the 2.6 server.
  * What you //can// do is move the triangles around, make new triangles, delete triangles, change the variations, variables, and colors applied to the triangles, rotate the image, use the Master Scale to zoom on part of the image, and probably a bunch of other stuff that I haven't figured out yet. You may use all triangles, variations, etc. when making sheep for the 2.7 server.
  * You will quickly find yourself wondering how to edit the Gradient (colors) in the sheep. Apophysis will let you load new gradients and shift the gradient left or right, but not edit it. To do that you need a program called [ApoMap](http://www.apophysis.org/Apomap1.exe). Apparently siminart has made a [ApoMap Tutorial](http://woosie.net/forumfiles/ApoMapBeginnersGuide.zip) if you feel you need it, but there's a pretty good guide in a [blog log](http://www.deviantart.com/deviation/49730356/) too. Use the copy gradient and paste gradient to get gradients from one program to the other (not to be confused with the plain copy and paste, which will affect only the selected section of the gradient and will not transfer to Apophysis).
  * Neither the default animation nor the sheep loop that comes with Apophysis is the animation that is used on Electric Sheep. You have to get the new sheep loop script and copy it into the scripts folder of Apophysis. Then you can load the animation and play it to preview what the animated sheep will do. [The sheep loop script](http://exper.3drecursions.com/exper-apophysis-scripts/) for the new 2.7 server is on Exper's site.
  * If your sheep don't move or appear to move very little (a bit of "sparkle" but no other motion), then they will not move on the server. Go through the triangles one by one and look at the "Colors" tab. Try setting the Symmetry to 0 for one or more triangles. It will change your colors at least slightly, but it should get things moving.
  * The make sheep script isn't hooked up to anything anymore. It will not make a sheep and it will make a mess out of your design.
  * Saving files is a little strange in this program. Pay attention to both the name and location of the .flame file it says it is saving to as well as the name of the individual fractal.
  * Make sure that there is only ONE sheep in the file that you upload. Each sheep begins with `<flame>` and ends with `</flame>`. If there is more than one `<flame>` tag in the file, there is more than one sheep there. Look at it back in Apophysis and try to figure out which one's the one you want. The name of the sheep is stored in the name= tag. It is OK if there is a set of outer tags (usually `<Flame>` and `</Flame>` in Apophysis files) as well, but there must be only //one// `<flame></flame>` file inside.
  * There is an incompatibility between the newer versions of flam3 and Apophysis that causes a problem when crossing sheep. If the sheep has a name (in the file it looks like //`<flame name=""`// with some name between the quotes. If it is a server sheep it will have the sheep's number recorded here) then when it is crossed, Apophysis will only display //two// different sheep when you open the output file. Each lamb will have the name of one of the parent sheep. Apophysis will assume that if it has the same name, it's the same sheep. There really are 20 different sheep in there, but you can't see them. The fix is simple: Just open the file in a text editor and delete the //name=""// part from the parent sheep files, or go through the output file and delete the names from there. Then it'll display just fine. It is worth noting that occasionally crosses really do result in twins (or quintuplets, or duodecatuplets).
  * Versions of Apophysis prior to 2.07 will not render the "interpolated" crosses (about 10% of random crosses), because these crosses have their colors saved as real numbers rather than integers. You can manually delete the digits after the decimal (turning them into integers), or just download a newer Apophysis. The sheep server and Flam3 have no problems with the real numbers.